                                                             SYLLABUS
ENGLISH (Code No. 01)

The question paper will be designed to test the candidates’ understanding of English
and workmanlike use of words.

GENERAL KNOWLEDGE (Code No. 02)

General Knowledge including knowledge of current events and of such matters of
everyday observation and experience in their scientific aspects as may be expected of
an educated person who has not made a special study of any scientific subject. The
paper will also include questions on History of India and Geography of a nature which
candidate should be able to answer without special study.

ELEMENTARY MATHEMATICS (Code No. 03)

ARITHMETIC

Number System—Natural numbers, Integers, Rational and Real numbers.
Fundamental operations, addition, substraction, multiplication, division, Square roots,
Decimal fractions. Unitary method, time and distance, time and work, percentages,
applications to simple and compound interest, profit and loss, ratio and proportion,
variation. Elementary Number Theory—Division algorithm. Prime and composite numbers. Tests of divisibility by 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 11. Multiples and factors. Factorisation Theorem. H.C.F. and L.C.M. Euclidean algorithm. Logarithms to base 10, laws of logarithms, use of logarithmic tables.

ALGEBRA

Basic Operations, simple factors, Remainder Theorem, H.C.F., L.C.M., Theory of
polynomials, solutions of quadratic equations, relation between its roots and
coefficients (Only real roots to be considered). Simultaneous linear equations in two
unknowns—analytical and graphical solutions. Simultaneous linear inequations in two
variables and their solutions. Practical problems leading to two simultaneous linear
equations or inequations in two variables or quadratic equations in one variable & their solutions. Set language and set notation, Rational expressions and conditional
identities, Laws of indices.

TRIGONOMETRY

Sine ×, cosine ×, Tangent × when 0° < × < 90° Values of sin ×, cos × and tan ×, 
for × =0°, 30°, 45°, 60° and 90°, Simple trigonometric identities. Use of trigonometric tables. Simple cases of heights and distances.

GEOMETRY

Lines and angles, Plane and plane figures, Theorems on (i) Properties of angles at a
point, (ii) Parallel lines, (iii) Sides and angles of a triangle, (iv) Congruency of triangles,(v) Similar triangles, (vi) Concurrence of medians and altitudes, (vii) Properties of angles, sides and diagonals of a parallelogram, rectangle and square, (viii) Circles and its properties including tangents and normals, (ix) Loci.

MENSURATION

Areas of squares, rectangles, parallelograms, triangle and circle. Areas of figures
which can be split up into these figures (Field Book), Surface area and volume of
cuboids, lateral surface and volume of right circular cones and cylinders, surface area
and volume of spheres.

STATISTICS

Collection and tabulation of statistical data, Graphical representation frequency polygons, histograms, bar charts, pie charts etc. Measures of central tendency.

EXAMS TO FOLLOW

CAPF
NDA
GEOSCIENTIST
CSE
CDS
